docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
---

Draft - v0.2.1
{: .label }
# User Research Guide

The BC User Research Guide provides information on doing user research as a BC public servant.

>This guide assumes that you are doing research with participants over 19 years old who are capable of making their own decisions. If you are looking to do research with participants that do not fit with this description, please review information on [vulnerable populations and complex research](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/ethics/) to see if formal approvals are required.

<!--## It's About People and their Needs

**People don’t wake up and think I wonder what the government of B.C. is doing today? I am going to visit their website to find out.** There is something that happened in their lives that drives them to use your service. Your service should fulfill this need and user research will help you understand what these needs are. -->


## Aligning to the Principles for Digital BC

Doing user research supports the following [digital principles](https://github.com/bcgov/digital-principles):

- Principle 1: Prioritize delivering impact for British Columbians
- Principle 2: Design with people & embed inclusion
- Principle 4: Continuously learn & improve
- Principle 10: Express cultural & historical awareness & respect

## Versions
- v0.0.1 Proof of concept launched (01/14/2020)
- v0.1.0 First draft of guide content launched (02/21/2020)
- v0.1.1 Included
  - [stipend receipt template](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/planning-research/compensation.html#proof-of-compensation)
  - [ethical practices](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/ethics/ethical-practices.html) and [code of conduct](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/ethics/code-of-conduct.html) (Needs review) (02/27/2020)
- v0.1.2 Updated information on allowing the use of [electronic gift cards](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/planning-research/compensation.html#electronic-gift-cards) for stipends (04/15/2020)
- v0.2.1 Major update: Including remote user research practices throughout guide and [new page for remote research](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/activities/remote-research.html) (04/16/2020)

## Provide Feedback

Content for the guide is hosted on Github and published using Github Pages as a way to develop content in the open. If you need more information or something should be edited you can [create an issue](https://github.com/bcgov/user-research-guide/issues/new/choose) in the Github repository or email <uxbc@gov.bc.ca>.

## Acknowledgment

This guide is adapted from the [Ontario User Research Guide](https://www.ontario.ca/page/user-research-guide) and the [Australia Government Digital Transformation Agency](https://www.dta.gov.au/help-and-advice/build-and-improve-services/user-research) available under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

Commit message:

updating language
swapping the word user research for design research

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
---

Draft - v0.2.1
{: .label }
# Design Research Guide

The BC Design Research Guide provides information on doing design research as a BC public servant.

>This guide assumes that you are doing research with participants over 19 years old who are capable of making their own decisions. If you are looking to do research with participants that do not fit with this description, please review information on [vulnerable populations and complex research](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/ethics/) to see if formal approvals are required.

<!--## It's About People and their Needs

**People don’t wake up and think I wonder what the government of B.C. is doing today? I am going to visit their website to find out.** There is something that happened in their lives that drives them to use your service. Your service should fulfill this need and user research will help you understand what these needs are. -->


## Aligning to the Principles for Digital BC

Doing design research supports the following [digital principles](https://github.com/bcgov/digital-principles):

- Principle 1: Prioritize delivering impact for British Columbians
- Principle 2: Design with people & embed inclusion
- Principle 4: Continuously learn & improve
- Principle 10: Express cultural & historical awareness & respect

## Versions
- v0.0.1 Proof of concept launched (01/14/2020)
- v0.1.0 First draft of guide content launched (02/21/2020)
- v0.1.1 Included
  - [stipend receipt template](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/planning-research/compensation.html#proof-of-compensation)
  - [ethical practices](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/ethics/ethical-practices.html) and [code of conduct](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/ethics/code-of-conduct.html) (Needs review) (02/27/2020)
- v0.1.2 Updated information on allowing the use of [electronic gift cards](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/planning-research/compensation.html#electronic-gift-cards) for stipends (04/15/2020)
- v0.2.1 Major update: Including remote user research practices throughout guide and [new page for remote research](https://bcgov.github.io/user-research-guide/activities/remote-research.html) (04/16/2020)
- v0.3.0 Major update: Changed name from User Research Guide to Design Research Guide along with updated language throughout the guide.

## Provide Feedback

Content for the guide is hosted on Github and published using Github Pages as a way to develop content in the open. If you need more information or something should be edited you can [create an issue](https://github.com/bcgov/user-research-guide/issues/new/choose) in the Github repository or email <uxbc@gov.bc.ca>.

## Acknowledgment

This guide is adapted from the [Ontario User Research Guide](https://www.ontario.ca/page/user-research-guide) and the [Australia Government Digital Transformation Agency](https://www.dta.gov.au/help-and-advice/build-and-improve-services/user-research) available under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
